.TH INSTEAD 6 "Version 3.2.0" Instead GAMES

.SH NAME

INSTEAD - Simple Text Adventure Engine, The Interpreter

.SH DESCRIPTION

The interpreter of STEAD (Simple Text Adventures) allows one to play games that combine visual novels, text adventures and classic quests of 1990-s.
The STEAD games features are:
.TP
 * very simple source code of the stories. (based on LUA);
.TP
 * graphical game interface;
.TP
 * supports music and images;
.TP
 * theme support \- a game may change the interface look;
.TP
 * portability (originally written for Linux, depends on SDL and lua).

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B sdl-instead
.I [options] [game.zip or game.idf or path to game]

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -debug
Debug mode (for game developers).
.TP
.B -nosound
Run the game without sound.
.TP
.B -vsync
Vsync output. (SDL2 only)
.TP
.B -gamespath <path>
Add path with games.
.TP
.B -themespath <path>
Add path with themes.
.TP
.B -nostdgames
Do not use default games.
.TP
.B -nostdthemes
Do not use default themes.
.TP
.B -game <basename>
Select game in gamespath.
.TP
.B -theme <basename>
Select theme in themespath.
.TP
.B -owntheme
Force game to use own theme.
.TP
.B -fullscreen
Run the game in fullscreen mode.
.TP
.B -hires / -nohires
Set/unset the high resolution when run in fullscreen mode.
.TP
.B -window
Run the game in windowed mode.
.TP
.B -resizable
Resizable window (SDL2 only)
.TP
.B -scale <scale>
Scale window (SDL2 only)
.TP
.B -noautosave
Disable autosave load.
.TP
.B -encode <lua file> [encoded file]
Encode lua file. Encoded file can be executed with doencfile("encoded file").
.TP
.B -idf <path to resources directory or game>
Build idf file [INSTEAD data file] from directory.
.TP
.B -mode [WxH]
Use WxH resolution.
.TP
.B -modes <WxH>[,<WxH>[,<WxH>]] ...
Define available resolutions.
.TP
.B -software
Force software rendering
.TP
.B -renderer <opengl|direct3d|software|...>
Select default renderer (SDL2 only)
.TP
.B -fontscale <percents>
Font scaling.
.TP
.B -nopause
Do not pause the game on window minimize.
.TP
.B -hinting 0|1|2|3
Set the font hinting mode (helpful with infinality).
.TP
.B -install [game in zip]
Install game from zip archive
.TP
.B -quit
Quit :)
.TP
.B -appdata [fullpath]
Store saves and settings in appdata path. Path must exist!
.TP
.B -chunksize [size in bytes]
Size for audio buffer. Try this if sound lags.
.TP
.B -version
Show version and exit.
.TP
.B -lua <script.lua> [arguments]
Exec lua script (for game developers).
.TP
.B -luac <script.lua>
Check lua script (for game developers).
.TP
.B -standalone
Run game in standalone mode (no sandbox, no games selection ...).
.TP
.B -noconfig
Do not load saved config (run with defaults).
.TP
.B -profile <profile>
Using configuration profile. Profile file is the ini-styled file with parameter = value pairs. Where is parameters
are arguments without -.

.PP
Configuration file name is 'insteadrc' and it's located in ~/.instead/.

Games can be downloaded from http://instead.sourceforge.net. Unzip them
in ~/.instead/games.

.SH CONTROLS

Please, see tutorial.

.SH LICENCE

This software is covered by the terms of the MIT license.

.SH WARRANTY
None.

.SH COPYRIGHT AND CREDITS

.TP
.B Peter Kosyh
INSTEAD author.
.TP
.B Ilya Ryndin
Initial port to Windows.
.TP
.B Mahno Aleksey, Anton Kolosov
Port to Android.
.TP
.B .dm
Port to Mac OS X.
.TP
.B Andrey Afletdinov
Port to Windows CE.
.TP
.B Vadim Balashoff
Advices.
.TP
.B Vladimir Zhirov
Advices.
.TP
.B Alexander Yakovlev
manual.tex support.
.TP
.B Serj Kalichev
Advices and default theme correction.
.TP
.B Vladimir Podobaev, Oleg Gvozdev
Testers.
.TP
.B Alexander Soborov
Wiki support.
.TP
.B Andrew Lobanov
Games repository, slackbuild.
.TP
Many others for comments, bug reports, games and ideas.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR http://instead.sf.net
